Hello, Acquired listeners. Since we did
our episode on Shopify 6 years ago, they
have turned into a giant public company.
They went public in 2015 for less than
1.5 billion dollars, very cute by
today's standards. They're worth nearly
200 billion dollars now and doing about
10 billion dollars a year in revenue.
We've gotten to know Toby and the team
pretty well since then, and Toby is an
incredibly unique thinker. We originally
thinking, let's do an ACQ2 episode on
Shopify's recent developments, sort of
everything that's happened since, which
ended up turning more into a
philosophical conversation about the
state of computing, how AI changes
everything, and what's possible to build
in the future because of AI. Yeah. We
also got into some of the more insane
moments for Toby as a CEO over the past
few years, like when the company almost
became a meme stock, going from trading
around a 20x revenue multiple before
COVID up to 70x, then crashing back down
after COVID and insert. Today though,
they're nearly back at an all-time high,
but this time because the business and
the revenues are actually doing great,
not because of a COVID insert fueled bet
on the future. Yes. So, please enjoy our
conversation with the founder and CEO of
Shopify, Tobi Lütke.
Where have you spent a disproportionate
amount of your mental cycles in the last
month?
It is a privilege of a lifetime to to be
part of an another platform shift. And
man, like it's just every single time I
think I have my head wrapped around it,
it's like
it it's remarkable how quickly one
normalizes to um
uh completely
futuristic new things appearing. They're
all kind of like, yeah, I guess I can
just paste this into chat GPT and like
ask it questions about it. I'm still
hung up on like
there's software that no one wrote, and
I have to interview it to figure out its
capability. So, my my time is like
really just interviewing uh
at like these um
like new models that are coming out for
their capabilities and like I'm just
trying to figure out how to um
um make them idealized non-judgmental
teachers for people. They keep getting
better and how to create structure
around
uh judging new models for their
capabilities, figuring out where the
edges are of what they can do right now,
but also make it so that I can very
quickly retest any new model coming
against those edges to figure out if if
if if we've crested another Do you have
your own personal like test harnesses
built to try to understand capabilities
of
>> That's exactly it. This is sort of what
I'm describing, but you're like nailing
it. Like I I I now um have um
like a uh like a Tobi eval that they're
like it's it's like literally a folder
of um prompts um with uh expected and
judged results. And I'm like I I run it
against every model. Like if at some
point I'm like
yes, I have these chats and I have these
standard questions, and then I sort of
make decisions based on this. I can
write code that does this for me and run
this against every model. And like it's
just like it's funny how your thinking
evolves while engaging with these tools,
right? Like this is like not how I would
have approached this before, but like
speaking with um a lot of machine
learning um
uh experts um
this is how they have been doing this.
These these ideas of um
building evals, uh they're called,
right? Like
um that's not a term to most people and
it's sort of a niche product of the
machine learning world because it's
essentially just batch jobs which just
try to do the same thing over and over
again and then judge results. Yeah, I
know that there's unit tests
>> Exactly. So, yeah, exactly. So, you you
you you unit tests were around and were
were like kind of a revolution um in um
early 2000s, end of '90s. The I I
remember when people sort of proposed
automated unit tests as a as as a thing
and
I talked um with you before about my um
uh wonderful uh Meister at where I where
I did my apprenticeship um with at
Siemens and he always said like you have
2 years um to develop software after you
start, and afterwards it's like someone
pours cement into it, right? Like you're
never going to change it again.
And um
that was like that was true at in the
'90s. That's how people thought about
software. Um Right, software engineering
was like civil engineering. It's like
you build the bridge, the bridge is
done. Exactly. It was as an end date to
it. And then um
um if you wanted to evolve it, you
rewrote it, right? Like um uh you know
like Windows was a rewrite every
every major version was actually start
from They took some of it, but like it's
mostly start from scratch. Software
evolves forever. Um I mean, I still
can't really explain why bit rot exists.
Like why does a great piece of software
is really really bad like a decade
later, right? Like it's like it doesn't
changed. We have changed, right? Our
expectation have changed maybe, but like
um As soon as the new iOS is announced,
the old iOS feels like garbage.
>> Right. And it's not that your phone got
slower, and it's not that those it's
those you UI paradigms sort of expired.
That's right. And and and and I see this
like really vividly. This is a good
example because you know, I do all these
product reviews and um I'm also like
I mean, it's so it's it's such a bad
thing to do, but I I just I I physically
can't restrain myself from hitting that
update to latest beta button when it
appears anywhere. Right? Like it's just
like I cannot. I I
like it's like this is siren's call.
There's no amount of
>> Do you Do you run beta software on your
phone and Yeah. First version. Like I
just I can't. I can't not. I'm like and
I I I have I have a single phone and I'm
like I'm I'm just going to
I I find all the bugs that are waiting
for me as interesting constraints that I
can like play with. You know, just like
You have Craig Federighi on speed dial
and you're like sending him screenshots
of Nope. Nope. No externalities. Uh I'm
just like I own it. I own my own
problems. I I'm going to the first
developer beta, and if five of my apps
that I need every day don't work, I use
it as delightful opportunity to learn
about new apps, right? So, it's just
like You're a public company CEO and
sometimes your phone is just randomly
crashing.
>> work. But that actually is avoidable and
but not for you. Yeah, it's it's
Whatever the consequences on This is why
Tobi is special.
So, anyway, I just like live in um you
know, uh as much as you know, iOS is
just updating to a new UI paradigm
called liquid glass, which was very much
maligned right off the bat by uh people
um and some somewhat rightfully so in
some instances. But to be fair, like
Apple has an uncanny ability to figure
out like introduce things that
afterwards seem that was clearly the
right thing and actually have an like
it's not even clear that they are
better, it's just they clear that they
make everything else It's it's induced
bit rot on everyone else in a way. It's
like just So, I I I've been living with
this
changed you UI for for a while and I'm
in these product reviews with my own
teams and
um you know, we're looking at designs
which are clearly sort of uh s- um good
designs in the context of the world that
we are now leaving, you know, in a way.
And like it it's incredible what it
does. Like because I'm like, hey
designers, I know you
I need you on betas. You kind of you
need to design for um the device as it
will be experienced by people in the
future, right? And so um I find that is
just like the biggest job
that um
uh you know, I personally can do for the
company and then my company can do for
my customers, which is like living
everyone else's relative future.
You don't even need to predict the
future that well. If you just live in
everyone else's relative future, which
really is just a couple of um
high conviction high courage uh update
to beta
clicks. It's not that hard to live in
the future. It really isn't. Yeah. Yeah,
exactly. You just go experience, you
know, develop taste for it and figure
out how to make your own decisions. And
this is of course extraordinary through
making, you know, sidekick inside of
Shopify and like having the AI assistant
which is now like massive.
>> Okay, so yeah, tell us about that and
like back to bit rot. I mean, that was
what I was going to ask before.
Uh
a lot of code is now not written by
humans and it's trivial to just be like,
yeah, update this, make this better.
What's going on in Shopify?
>> exactly. Like what what a what a
incredible change. Code used to be by
far the most expensive thing and uh to
produce, right? I think um
really really good code for low-bearing
things is still exactly like this, but
like around around the margins there's a
lot of a lot of a kind of code that
glues together um
inspired infrastructure is uh can can
can now just be treated as
like like a like a first draft, right?
Like for for something. And I think
that's actually extremely healthy. Like
this is a property of almost every great
piece of software. Um there's a thing
there's there's a very clear split um
somewhere. There's a layer like the
Linux kernel needs to be developed in
one way, and and and then the Linux
operating system is like
just uses the kernel's infrastructure
and pretends like every computer is the
same because you don't you can you can
like it it creates a pretend world
that's easier to reason about so that
then
the software can be implemented.
Abstraction. It's a beautiful thing.
Yeah. Abstraction, but inspired
abstraction. Abstractions can also be
bad because like
abstraction is a just another word for
uh pretension. It's it pretends like
everything that abstracts something just
pretends
um it's different from how it actually
is.
And so, abstractions can be incredibly
powerful and uh there there there's some
one could name which have like really
stood the test of time. But a lot of
abstractions are um lossy abstractions.
They actually pretend the system is
something um
uh it it it is a lot less powerful than
it what it actually is, which really
really matters if you have both things
on top. And then you end up on this like
tower of uh um
abstractions you sit on top. You want
something for which you would actually
have to go down here and connect. And
then you have this sort of
a spider web of cables left and right,
and it's just like it's it's it's all
it's all like spaghetti in the end. Um
This was like the world of uh to make it
concrete for listeners, the uh write
once, run anywhere mobile idea where oh,
we'll just cross-compile to all of the
different phones back in 2012 or so. It
was PhoneGap or Xamarin. Yeah, and the
the abstractions ended up being too
lossy where you didn't actually be a
have access to the capabilities.
>> debacle of like, "Oh, great. We'll just
write for HTML5 and then it'll run like
a native app." And you know, like
no. Yeah, and and and you know, very
very good software companies believed
that to be the way, right? Like hybrid
applications were all the rage in the
beginning. And you remember the phones
were really really slow back then. The
phones are insanely quick and even today
hybrid apps are not that great. So, you
know, Facebook famously was all in on
this idea and
Xamarin is a good example. So, there's a
lot of these kind of um
picking the wrong abstractions early
really constrains
uh the um what you can do on top. Uh
But and very often when the abstraction
is wrong,
it means you can't actually reach great
software anymore. More you you actually
pretended the world is simpler, but like
you don't actually allow all the
most load-bearing uh pieces into this
pretension a pretended world um that uh
at some point required to making the
software just really really good.
And so, you know, again, I'm a tool
maker, right? Let's keep beating on this
Xamarin thing that no one's heard of,
but like just I think we've described it
enough so that people might have an idea
for what it might be. Just imagine you
use very bad software and um the team
that started the project decided early
to use Xamarin and then they never had a
chance of making this
as good as all the other things you
really appreciate on your phone due to
this decision no matter how good they
are.
It's like building your house on top of
your kitchen table instead of on the
foundation of your house. That's a very
good analogy. Um it's it's you can't
They They are early decisions that will
constrain how good you can make
something. In our parlance at Shopify,
that means
certain ideas, certain abstractions,
certain choices um
uh bring the ceiling down as in like if
you have a scale from 1 to 10 of how
good something can be. A 10 is
world-class masterpiece and a one is
like like horrible. Um
what you hope to do is that you use
abstractions to make it easier to which
to to to reach a good number. It brings
the floor up. It's at least this good,
right? That's what most abstractions do.
And from business value, this is a lot
of businesses choose tools to make it at
least this good because that is sort of
a passing grade, right? Like it it
clears the hurdle. Why why would any
customer use Shopify? It's like, well,
okay, I could go build my own e-commerce
checkout payment system. My store's
going to be at least this good even if I
do zero customization. Right. And well,
if you set out to do your own like um
from scratch,
and this is not your your core business,
what you get back might actually be like
completely underperforming what you
wanted. Right? Like so you can't even
use it. It might be will be. Yes. Very
very very likely. And um it becomes one
of those ever like death march projects
that you just pour resources in. It
takes incredibly good people to rescue a
bad project, which is like hard to even
convince good people to do this. Windows
Vista uh Yeah. Yeah. So, um you end up
in this world where you know, so bring
bring the floor down is what people hope
for. What a lot of people miss is very
often the same systems bring the ceiling
down.
And so, um what you are try like trying
to do as a tool maker, as an
infrastructure builder, um as a product
maker
is you want to make a uh tool that
brings the floor up significantly,
but doesn't constrain the ceiling. And
that is extremely hard. I think it takes
sometimes it takes um
it it might not take decades to build
it, but it does take decades to
build the mental um
picture to really understand all the
aspects of a problem domain um in such a
way that you know you you you have to
look around five corners to know am I
going to restrict someone's potential
with making this sort of choice that's
here ahead of me. Uh modern operating
systems are wonderful. They don't
usually lower the ceiling. Um uh they
like you you can build any amazing piece
of software on top of uh you know,
Windows, Linux, and all the 6 now. We we
figured out how to do this because we've
been building operating systems for a
very long time and there were clearly um
attempts that were wrong.
You know, there's many such spaces,
e-commerce software being being being
one of them. Um like there it's just
like yes, we want we want to build
something that's that looks like this.
However,
it also matters how likely it is. Like
what is the distribution inside of you
the users of the system of who people
who hit 10 out of 10 versus like if your
floor is 7 out of 10, which is really
good,
is is is everyone clustered there and
one or two people managed to take it to
the storied heights? That's also bad.
And again, this is why I think um
um
AI is so exciting because I think it's
its principal ability is really to help
um massively shift the sort of scatter
plot of where people end up in as
compared to their own vision. I want
people if they have like whatever their
vision is unencumbered is a 10 out of 10
um on the scale. I want them to hit it.
And I just like
if they don't, there needs to be good
reasons and ideally their own. Like um
the choices they made may may made
mistake. Maybe their product's not good.
>> Not that the platform constrained them
into not being able to make something
great.
>> Computers should never to constrain
people. It's like this is not the
computer's role. The computer is to get
people to build things that they could
not possibly imagine putting having
having solved otherwise. It's like this
is like this is the sorting. This is the
ordering. Like computers are there to
make
humans better, never to constrain what
humans can do. What does that look like
from a product? I could imagine, but
what sort of products are you building
that take advantage of that? Usually
when it is a 10 out of 10, very often um
um
people have broken with, you know,
experts. Some people will really
dedicate themselves to really really
understanding all the ins and outs of
of a really complex piece of software.
In many cases, that's the only way we
could get there. Although I think this
the role of software is to minimize the
need for this kind of thing. And we want
to make it approachable so that people
can sort of
again, accomplish their initial goal,
get online, have a checkout, be able to
sell the product that they spent a lot
of time with. And if they have
additional time to invest, be able to
start um
we call this hill climbing, right? So,
now with
like
you have now AI you can ask. In fact, we
are going to increasingly ask you
um
what your goals are, right? Or at least
we we have to try find ways to uh deduct
that from what people are doing with the
software or just straight up ask. My my
my theory is that people are very happy
to tell us what their goals are. And a
lot of software just doesn't do it
because it can't action it. But it
maybe it a lot it has a We could put a
to-do list there and
help you with the record keeping,
but it can't be uh
we can't do anything about a to-do list
before AI. And now again, with these
gigantic flows, we increasingly can. So,
um
yeah, like in like I think the way to
get to 10 out of 10 is just like really
sit on the same side of the table, have
an like we have an intake. We we you
very naturally tell us what you're
trying to accomplish,
and then we can show you here's what a
prototype would look like of this idea
that
that you have. And just like
also implement just these obscure best
practices, right? I've spoken with one
of our customers. They're selling rugs
and um Rugs? Like sorry, rugs. Oh, rugs.
Okay. The woolly stuff on the floor.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like beautiful
carpets, really. Um I should I should I
should use the word carpets because that
works better with my accent.
They were just not making progress in um
in in with their Europe strategy and
kind of about to pull out and then they
used some tools that uh we we we rolled
out not really knowing what it would be
used for to um
just change the pictures. Like literally
just
upgrade update the the images of all
their products away from Malibu beach
houses to Parisian apartments. Um like
this was not a new photo shoot. This was
actually just like do this for me. Wow.
And their sales tripled because 4 years
ago, 3 years ago, this would actually
technically not have been possible to
do. Now it's about the most boring thing
you can imagine, right? Like this is how
much the world has changed. I mean, at a
minimum it would have been like, "Okay,
let's book a photo shoot in Paris and
let's like, you know, yeah. Like
allocate some capital, organization,
like it's it's needs some attention,
probably someone
>> product there. Let's try out the yeah.
And so now now now this is just done and
like this has proven out. And again, I'm
I'm sure they don't run these
AI changed
product pictures now um in production.
I'm sure they did the shoot afterwards.
Um
but
they also discovered something over
their business which would have been
entirely obscure to it. But this is a
applicable lesson across the entire
platform and something we can absolutely
help. There's more businesses that don't
have the resources to go reshoot all
their pictures. Well, and and shoot,
like the stuff is now so good that like
you probably don't need to do the shoot.
Right? Like even if you are uh
the biggest business in the world, like
differences is indiscernible. Yeah. I I
I and you know, like if when you talk
about the biggest business in the world,
they they already operate like this.
Like IKEA does not um
that is like the IKEA catalog is not has
no photos in it. It's all renders. Um
they they just like they create really
really good versions of Oh, car
commercials are not videos of cars
driving. It's renders of the cars. And
you only know because um
the uh professional drivers on on on
closed roads has disappeared, which was
required before, right? Like so that
that just doesn't They don't need to
show us anymore because I hadn't noticed
that. Like there's no one actually
driving.
>> giveaway. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, I think
the way this really like hits for me the
most is um again, I grew up on like all
the sci-fi books that uh everyone in my
generation really grew up on or many of
many did anyway. Um The sort of like
very very optimistic, but also far
future like
Asimov and so on. What What's your
favorite, by the way? Um I I I I'm my
favorite. That's actually
My I think Snow Crash is my favorite.
It's just And And Neuromancer is uh I
recently reread Neuromancer. It's a good
really really good book.
>> That's a giveaway. Yeah, I know. Yeah.
In so many cases,
like
especially Heinlein did this. Like
there's usually like a catch-up chapter.
Here's how the
we get to the starting point of a book.
And um
one of the events is always
in 20
uh 2110
we pass the Turing test. And like there
are celebrations in the streets and then
something turns out right usually right
after, right? Like um to set the stage.
And you know what no sci-fi author dared
to predict is that the Turing tests
just passes by.
>> We just blow by it and nobody noticed.
>> No one can There was no New York Times
front page article that we passed the
Turing test. There's no It's not even
like the tech community was exploding
about it. We all were just like, "Oh
yeah, we're in the generative AI era
now."
>> But if you just think
clearly GPT 3.5 which is like like it's
significantly worse than something you
can run on your phone right now locally
like pass the Turing test with flying
colors. And it's it's it's this is
crazy. Like this is this is the craziest
thing about the actual world if you
think about It's interesting that
uh if I
maybe I'll take back my previous
comment. What was actually happening
when we passed the Turing test and no
one cared was we were all so focused on,
"Oh, is this the path to AGI?"
I kind of wonder if AGI will be the same
thing where we do actually achieve ABI
AGI but we'll actually be talking about
some other future milestone that we're
wondering about.
>> I think humans are incredibly good at
moving the goal post.
Yeah.
>> It's like the there's some kind of
expectation-related version of a
hedonistic treadmill that we sometimes
talk about which is like just like it
moves forward. It's like we adjust we
adjust to our circumstances incredibly
quickly. Um and so um
like I mean
almost everyone listening lives uh um
their own dream life from many years
ago, right? Like people accomplish their
goals and um
we we kind of never stop to think about
it. And I think this is like it's really
really hard for us to judge our
our own um our own environment and
what's going on around us. So I think in
a in a like on a societal level this
even seems to replicate. And
again, the Turing test was one of the
best takes we've had and people can like
now people criticize it because it's not
good enough because of I suppose it
wasn't.
But like um it was still the best test
uh that that people generally refer to
about figuring out if something is
intelligent. And we passed it and um
there was no
no parades no
uh front page news
No no no ticker tape parades. You know,
it's like it's we should have Yeah. Um
>> seem though that there are like there
are a few CEOs of which you are one
that
uh
noticed this. And like you're behaving
You started this
by saying you have the privilege now of
living through another platform shift. I
don't think any the world has quite
realized yet that it's a platform shift.
Yeah. I um
I I I but I wish people would. And I
wish people would like sort of seep in
the remarkableness of it. Like it's just
like I don't like
I don't know if you've ever done this.
Like I mean I love the the the VR Google
Meta Quest and so on. Um
I I I
uh
use it more than most because I use it
for like um
uh
uh racing simulator preparations and so
on. It's it's it's a it's an incredible
device which also like VR was another
one of those things which we thought we
would get at some point and then it came
and like it's kind of like there. People
use it sometimes for like their fitness
work or whatever. It's just like it's a
like it it just folded into uh the
ambient world
>> at least for some.
>> it wildly for granted that that
technology is cheap and plentiful Yeah,
exactly. $299 or whatever like for for
like remarkable device, right? You know,
augmented reality. Like also something
people talk about. You you you can buy
them next week. Like it's just like the
event next week
after we film this and then afterwards
you can just purchase VR goggles video
thing.
>> Yeah, the Meta glasses. Yeah, yeah. It's
amazing. Um uh and so um
that's all around us. And you know, one
thing that really struck me is when when
when you play with the um
uh Meta Quest um and then and the VR
goggles, there's one game that I really
highly recommend people. There's
It's called Job Simulator. Have you Have
you ever encountered Job Simulator?
Okay, you have to try it out. Job
Simulator is like this sort of satirical
take of like a like it pretends we're in
the far future and there's museums
um where uh uh people go to figure out
what a job was.
Yes. And it starts you on a cubicle. And
you know, like you have to turn on the
computer. And uh you have to like to
turn it on you actually have to plug a
um
uh uh power cable into the wall, right?
And it's like otherwise it doesn't work
and you just think it's broken. And it
it it it's it's so wonderful because
like it plays on the future historians
and robots kind of getting details
wrong. I actually think it's like
profound uh
um and and actually brilliant commentary
on on on on on on on on the world. But I
think what idea this nailed is that
I think we will have um VR simulations
of these times. I think we do like I I
think this is golden age of humanity
right now. It's the I think it's the end
of the beginning. And and so I think we
will um I think people in 1,000 years
will um study these times uh the way we
are studying um Cicero's times of the
end of the Roman Republic and um as as a
significant part of history. And um
because it's kind of where we
figured ourselves out in a lot of ways.
And yes, there's like people look at you
know, you look at the news there's lots
of
um uh
like there's a lot of current affairs
and bends. I I think they will um
um fade out um
uh behind
simplistic terms like obviously there
was like strife in any kind of time
doing uh doing great change. But it's so
unmitigatedly good. It's like there's so
many things we are we are um
bringing to the world these gifts of
incredible technology um and progress um
that are coming rapidly that are all
kind of the types of things that are
going to make um
uh give individuals with vision so much
more agency which is like the thing that
like it's always at the top of a funnel
of anything
like that people truly care about. Like
it's it's I everything that people
really love are the products of
experiences uh other people's uh like
it's I think that people fought for as a
passion the results and the residue in
museum of
uh it's a museum of other people's
passion projects as John Collison put
it. Um Such a good quote. Such a good
one.
>> I think that is probably the best tweet
on the entire X platform. Like he's uh
is so good. Um We'll we'll we'll link to
it for listeners who haven't seen it.
The
I'm sitting here thinking if if I could
kind of describe your life you started a
company in the previous technology era,
the web era, and then you know, took it
into the mobile era.
Um you have a family.
Uh you have hobbies. You talked about
racing. Um
and
the entire world is going through what I
think you think is the most
transformative change in the last
hundreds of years.
>> Yeah.
What should you do with your current
life in reaction to that knowing that
you live at one of the most like
crucible moments in history when we look
back at it.
>> or is my advice
>> and then like generalize it. What should
people do if they believe this? It
sounds like you're interviewing models
every day. Yeah, like like but but but
but once the floating points in them
just to be clear.
Cuz uh Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah.
You were interviewing
foundational models.
>> Exactly yeah yeah. Good
important uh distinction. Good
distinction. So yeah, like
I mean here's I
here here is what I'm doing. I I am very
much uh
this comes fairly natural to me and I
think it's a little bit a job for me to
transmit some of the awe I feel um about
the times, right? Like I
I think that um
what we think of history currently is
wrong um and again, the people in 1,000
years from now who are also going to
play 2020 simulator um
Uh uh I'm never going to get this image
out of my head. I love it. They they
they will think about uh
these decades and this time differently
because what we will
do
in due time is reintegrate um
uh technology into our own history. Our
own self history is one of sometimes
decline, right? Like it's
we are talking about um
uh the Golden Gate Bridge being built in
in in whatever two three years. We we we
are rightfully saying we can't do this
anymore. Um we um
we are looking at great works and
infrastructure projects and our like uh
the great generation, the wars, and
these kind of things. And look at this
and say, "Well, um
uh we we can't experience a world right
now where um
people built Bethlehem Steel or people
built Henry Ford's factories or um uh
they they are just like physical
manifestations of the incredible
uh uh power of you know, human beings
coming together and creating things is
sort of manifest for us to see in front
of our eyes.
Um and so therefore people judge that we
no longer do this. However, we are
actually absolutely doing this. It's
just the great works are
kernels of operating systems, the
browser, the um
lots of the software platforms, the
phones, the um the incredible advances
in uh silicon lithography and the um the
the again, the models that we create and
train and uh the data centers that
support them.
>> of it is actually physical building,
laying the energy infrastructure and the
power the power generation, the power
transmission, the building themselves,
the heat management, the cooling. I
mean, less than 3 years ago ChatGPT
didn't exist.
Yeah.
But but it is physically not as
imposing. So like like the data center I
I I love a blinking light down the
aisle, but man, have if you have been to
a what a what a what a refinery looks
like or or or natural gas liquidation
plant.
Um
It like it just hits you on a level that
is it it's it's
it requires zero analogy to understand
how incredible
of an achievement each of these things
is. Like the bridges we drive over um
are like they they're just like man,
this is this is this is humans being
their best selves creating
you know, shaping things not just like
and like very often not stopping at
utility, but also going for for for
for just beauty by itself. Like the
ornamentation is load-bearing in because
we're not just recreating things.
So, like there's no ornamentation on the
outside of a like of a of a data center
that eventually will
train superintelligence if that were to
In fact, we hide it. We we don't put
logos on it. We don't even we we try not
to be have on maps. Yes, exactly. It's
it's going to be as obscure as you can
make it.
So,
so I think this is one of those things
in the world that makes that sends
people astray. So, back to what I like I
I want I I love to transmit um
this because I have cultivated
um like every technologist has to an
appreciation for the abstract in the
same way that people naturally come
preloaded with an appreciation for the
concrete. Like I I can look at a
piece of software and appreciate it in
the same way how I can look at at the
Pantheon. And unfortunately, that is not
something that comes easy. In fact, that
is that requires
in like and is also probably not value
worth the time that it takes. You really
have to rewire your brain in a very
significant way. People who build tech
tech companies
>> can look at the Pantheon and be like
but not any human can look at a piece of
software and say well. Exactly. And we
can we even have the thousands of years
of um
understanding about why the Pantheon is.
Like we can we can we can we can start
with math to tell you why the ratios are
correct.
Um
We are now we are close in the
in the in the abstract realm. We we we
like we we can't describe why software
is good truly. We like it's taste. It's
it's some people know it when they see
it. It's something you cultivate. Um
And so it's it's just abstract on top of
abstract. If you build a tech company,
you kind of have to do what I'm talking
about to yourself because again, I I see
this in my customers when they
The reason why my customers love
building physical stores, retail stores
is because they can stand in them. They
can see them. They can
they can judge every piece by like
touching it. They they can they can they
can watch their customers come in and
like look at things. They look at they
they learn what the first thing is they
look at um
and
how they handle it. Do they pick it up?
Is it clothing? Does it feel right? And
and do they put it down? Is that
something for them?
And they will rearrange the store every
day. They they will climb inside of it
because they can judge everything. It's
concrete. With a with an online store,
it's not. Like
we we try really hard to tell you sort
of live how many people there are and
tell you stats about it. It's always
abstract. It's numbers. It's it's it's
not real. It's not it doesn't hit us. It
Even if you cultivate an an appreciation
for looking at the numbers and looking
at stats and become data-driven um if
some if you would do an analysis of how
a day went um um in your mind while
sitting while being in a in an fMRI
machine, it would be a very small it
would be neural frontal cortex only that
would light up. If you would think about
your day in the shop talking with
people, it's the entire brain lighting
up. It's just
we we are predisposed to appreciate
the concrete, of course of course we
are. We we have this exact thing with
Acquired. We release an episode. Numbers
instantly hit hundreds of thousands and
then over the course of months hit
millions. And like I look at the
dashboard and I feel nothing. Yes. And
then David and I do
>> But then then we do an event
>> an in-person thing at Radio City Music
Hall.
>> tiny fraction of those people and it's
like
>> And it's like my whole
>> blows up the whole brain.
>> Like every emotions I've never
experienced before, memory is created,
nostalgia is created, relationship is
created. You're on cloud nine for weeks
and you're like that was nothing
compared to what was in the dashboard,
but Yes. is so true. And it's it's like
I I don't know how to solve it and I
think it might be not solvable because
it kind of depends on like it might it
might honestly depend on our hardware at
some point. Like it's just like
the the the the we can convince our
incredibly malleable
frontal cortex of anything and it can
learn to appreciate the abstract, but
the lizard brain is not convinced. Uh is
the age of
VR the answer? Like is the next stage
after charts and graphs and tables to
like create
full like abstract experiences?
>> there there Yeah, like this is how many
people if you were standing in your
store right now, this is what it would
look like as people were shopping.
>> your Shopify store would be. I feel like
I I I actually think I think it will be
get better and then uh
not nearly the same. I just don't think
it's reachable. I don't I don't I don't
not think you can replace it. And I
think that's that
that's a real constraint and we just
have to like look at our data.
>> though that you were saying a minute ago
about like part of your job and part of
the industry's job is
to
convey that Yes. and describe that to
the world. Okay, so what do other people
what should other people do if they
agree with you that this is this moment
of great historical significance? The
actual thing I I do is I found myself a
thing I really really care about and try
to bridge from the future to people I
like I care about. It's like
I built Shopify.
I I I try to understand what future
looks like in any with any trick I I in
the book um and I want to
I I I I want to help with what's going
on and I
having finding a task that you care
about inside of the change is is I think
the best position anyone anyone can
take. It doesn't have to be a software
company like
so much of
music is going to change because we can
generate quite extraordinary music from
neurons directly.
That's seen as a threat and like similar
to how words can be generated with with
AI in a even more obvious way.
It's integration. Like what like help
everyone figure out
what is like the
the clearly human part because here's a
funny thing. Like there's a couple of
worlds where AI has already massively
you know, obviously math. Like the
calculator has been there for a long
time and the best calculations and
fastest calculations were clearly not
done by humans any for ever since the
calculator came around, right? So,
chess is such a good example of this.
Like the best
game of chess in every year of the last
20 years has been played by machine
against machine.
And no one gives a No one no one
no one watches those matches. No one
looks at it. We know it. Studies them.
About everyone knows who who Magnus
Carlsen is, right? Like we we actually
care not about chess. We care about
humans playing chess. And
that's this is the one thing we people
really do get very wrong here.
We need to figure out how how how how to
treat what the new capabilities as
instruments that we can play um and then
um
uh
like explore that space and teach
others. And I think that's I think
that's going to be the most fulfilling
and fun position because it it it it it
allows you to
um
steep yourself in the things that were
previously impossible
um while they are still hard
and and figure them out, which is always
one of the most fun things and then
teach others. I can highly recommend it.
It is incredibly fulfilling.
All right, listeners. This is a great
time to thank friend of the show Plaid.
Yes. Odds are you've used Plaid without
even realizing it. If you've ever linked
your bank account to apps like
Robinhood, Venmo, or Chime, you're one
of the millions of people, like one in
every two Americans, who've already used
Plaid. I feel like I've grown up in the
tech industry alongside Plaid. So many
modern experiences are powered by them.
And at its core, Plaid isn't just about
making it easier to connect to your
bank. It ends up being the backbone of
thousands of companies building faster,
safer, and more seamless financial
experiences. Whether it's reducing
fraud, speeding up onboarding, or
turning old-school banking processes
into something that feels instant and
effortless, Plaid is making it happen.
So, last year Plaid rolled out some
powerful tools. Think cash flow data for
better credit decisions, anti-fraud tech
with AI, and analytics for bank
payments. And this year, they're
leveling up again with major updates
across all three of those products. And
they're even helping businesses manage
things like direct billing for your
subscription. So, the bottom line is
Plaid is making it easier for companies
to build smarter, safer, and more
personalized financial experiences that
just work. If you're building financial
tools or infrastructure, Plaid's data
analytics can give you a serious edge.
Whether it's fighting fraud,
underwriting smarter, or managing
payments more efficiently. And if you
want to learn more about how Plaid
created one of the biggest networks in
financial services today, listen to our
recent ACQ2 episode with Plaid's founder
and CEO, Zach Perret. Our thanks to
Plaid.
It's funny. We were talking to another
CEO yesterday who um
is a huge football fan. Uh American
football fan. And uh last year wrote an
AI agent to do his fantasy draft for
him.
And like scour the whole internet, take
into account all the likelihoods to be
injured and all that.
>> great that people generally First, he
was like, "What do people not
incorporate in their fantasy drafts?"
Well, first it was what do people
incorporate but they actually don't know
all the information. Go great. Go and
just all that information. Now, what are
the factors that I think people aren't
thinking about?
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so like one of
those was like propensity to be injured.
Like
Yeah, that does seem really important.
Most people don't account for that.
Great. Write an AI agent does that. Like
Or if they do, they have incomplete
information and you could go get more.
Yep. So, wrote it, crushed it, you know,
like won the league, you know, all that.
Like
this year
everybody in his league is using an AI
agent. Yes, yes, yes.
I mean, so then they were like, you
know, well, shoot. Shouldn't like NFL
head coaches do that, too? Like
One one thing on this
this like well, great. Now everybody's
doing it. This thing I've been thinking
about is
um
when you really see
the full capabilities of the latest
thing in AI and you you you get a demo
of something or you get to use something
for the first time that you're like,
this isn't how I was using it before and
this is not how other people use AI. You
think
whoa, I have an edge. Yeah. I actually
can do something that people didn't
think was possible.
It it's become clear to me that even 5
years from now, people who are
successful
it's not going to be people that are
making things in an unassisted way.
Everything is going to be
assisted. And so, the best people in the
world at anything necessarily will be
the people who best know how to use
these tools. Mhm.
Do you agree that like
this is this is the new bar to be a
human out in the world is understand how
to best be a user of AI tools?
Yes, uh but like I think for a bigger
reason than just the
like AI tool. I think in terms of
stability, which even our industry had,
like the things were just like not
changing that much.
>> 2015 to 2021.
>> Exactly. So, that's that time like I
think that entire 2000 like 2010's
decade in tech was
I mean, obviously people will rattle off
a couple of things that changed. But
like we had the mobile phone, we had the
platform and we just sort of scaled. Um
the ideas that all come from a previous
decade.
Um
there it's pretty obscure, but when when
things become change faster, it becomes
very obvious. And there's two groups of
people are people who fundamentally have
fallen into in in love with problems and
people who fundamentally have fallen in
love with solutions.
And I think that sometimes like of
course the people who really fall in
love with solutions obviously then grief
if our solutions and become unideal.
That makes perfect sense and I'm sure it
sucks.
It's happened to me, too. I love
computer programming like like low-level
stuff for just like for for for for no
reason. I I will never implement most
algorithms again because I can just like
when I type of the function name
there's gray text already and I can hit
tab and then it's implemented.
And sometimes better than probably my
naive first implementation would have
been anyway. So, like there's some
artistry
lost and some skills that I no longer
need. Um
But again, the people who love to solve
problems are the ones who are just so
enabled right now and I think everyone
starts there. No one is falls in love
with solutions at the beginning of their
careers.
It's like you can't.
And so, I think people need to remember
how they got to where they are right now
and
realize that um
this is just a bit of a calcification of
who they were and they need to take a
step back and realize
probably life was more fun when I
was walking around looking for how I
will do my craft, right? Like how I will
do my my my thing.
Like like this even gets so far like
even in the corporate world like jobs,
job descriptions, like job titles. We've
gotten incredibly we are almost pushing
people into this like in into falling in
love with solutions. Like
um you know
you you are you are a sales operations
expert, right? Like what is that? That's
that's that that's
like a title for a particular way how
companies end up solving a particular
operational problem they had at some
point.
What you actually are like is like
you're an amazing human being that
got hired into a company and the company
wants you to add as much of what you've
got to the mission, right? And like
clearly
you can you can zoom out. Everyone does
of us been going out with friends and
venting, right? Like it's like you you
talk about how the place could be
better. Well
forget about the title. Like let let
figure out like how can you contribute?
Like and and everyone who's like really
immersing themselves like in in in in
these tools,
I I sent a memo to my company
like and we set the expectation that
we require that people reflexively reach
for AI now and and we require it because
it's unfair not to because the people
who do otherwise going to be the people
who sequester all the best careers to
themselves, right? Like and
I think it's fair to tell everyone that
that's what it takes now.
>> for everyone who didn't see or or forgot
the memo from like just a couple months
ago but feels like a few years ago, uh
you're now required in Shopify to use AI
as your first pass at everything, right?
>> Which was controversial when you sent it
and now seems obvious. It's like yeah,
exactly. I didn't think I was sending a
terribly controversial message to begin
with, but then someone told me that it's
like being leaked in bad faith. I think
so and then I just like posted it so
that I think it worked quite well at
least
there.
I was surprised how many people cared
about that.
And cuz it it says a couple of things.
Don't don't
if you if you said at the beginning of a
project use AI to prototype it
and then if AI is really bad at
prototyping, it make fun of AI. I just
want it's not about what you
make with it, it's what that you did it
because it might surprise you and also
very earlier in the conversation we
talked about Evals.
If AI is bad at the thing that you asked
it to do, now you have an Eval for the
next AI that's coming out. So, you're
building your quiver of tests. What are
what are some of your Evals? Like you
you you mentioned you have this like
folder of instructions. What are some of
your tests?
>> of this is like things where you know,
like from coding for instance where I
just like misunderstand a certain prompt
which it had enough context. I I like
the term context engineering because
I think the fundamental skill of using
AI well
is
to be able to state a
problem
with enough context in such a way
that
without any additional piece of
information, the task is plausibly
solvable. Right? That's actually
a really tricky thing and now with a lot
of agents, the agents end up being
pretty good at figuring out what's
missing and go get it themselves.
But I think that's
I mean, the crazy thing about AI is like
it can do this.
I think I think the skill people should
build is trying to not require it to to
do it. Why is this a useful skill to
build? First of all, it makes it much
cheaper to use AI, it makes much higher
likelihood of
success. But
this is really funny. I think it makes
you better in so many other ways that
has nothing to do with AI. I write much
better emails since I became a good
context engineer. I just like I now
realize how much is unsaid in
instructions.
Why is so many things so much of what
people describe in companies as politics
is actually bad context engineering.
It's really funny that like because I I
I so often end up doing the what is the
root note of a problem here that that we
all have. And you realize
after digging one two layers down,
there's just a fundamental dis
disagreement on an assumption about how
to do like what is good what is good
look like for for this area. David and I
have just finally started
taking some things that we previously
thought, oh that's part of the secret
sauce of acquired and who knows why my
neurons fire that way, it just comes out
and it's part of the magic.
We started actually writing down
instructions so that AI can do things
that we previously thought were like
part of our magic and it like it's it's
less magical than you think. We've just
never had to actually codify how the how
we do the job before and I think that's
probably a lot of people who are like
it's a failure of introspection of what
actually makes the work that you make
good
and once you actually write down your
process and all that, you actually and
have an evaluation framework for what
makes it good, it actually is quite
executable by AI. 100% and and
you're I don't know how far you're down
this journey now, but like
there's an entire world that opens
itself up to you when once you start
doing this because
like I
I have this tool and we have this at
Shopify. We we we
um
use Anthropic's term for we we call
these things constitutions
which is maybe a little bit too grand,
but like
figuring out a document that is actually
like sort of
all the things that are not platitudes
whereas like all the things where
someone else like some other company
would plausibly take the other side of
and
but that's but those are the real
choices, right? Like if no one would
take the other side, it's a platitude.
But teamwork is clearly something every
company wants, right? Usually the
company values end up being just
platitudes. It's very funny. Um
So so you end up like creating a list of
these kind of things that you uniquely
would pick a side on.
The trade-offs that you're choosing.
Yeah, exactly.
What makes you know, basically like
write down your uniqueness.
And then you get in an absolutely
fascinating world because first of all,
you can use it. You can hold up to your
work and just saying, okay, well, help
me here with this and these are things
you need to know in your again, context
engineered window.
But it it It way more interesting when
you use
you know your favorite episodes
transcripts. You add this and say
what what's missing from the document.
And you get suggestions. And you're
like, could we have made Costco better
in some way?
Yeah, right. It's scary, right? Like
yeah. And and so um
um
what you will realize is this sort of
this is another hill climbing exercise
because this constitution will get much
much longer. And you actually have a
collaborative AI on it. Um because
um these things are incredibly valuable.
They they are um
um you know, just like
you know, anyway, there's so many
This gets too much into the weeds, but
like like inside of Shopify there's so
many things that can be done like this.
We have product principles which I wrote
at some point and have since been hill
climbing this all
in a in a in a in a loop like this. Um
And any project in our internal systems
now like when it goes into like to
review time is like we can run against
the product principles and and also
specific principles against office area.
And it's not like
some control mechanism. It's in fact
it's it's honestly just like here is
where
um interesting discussion should happen.
It guides the conversation because they
often what we find is
product principles are wrong or
imprecise or stated too broadly with not
enough provisos.
And because you want to write for a
large audience in generalities, but like
when you do work with AI can actually
say, okay, well, actually let's write
all these statements next to the
convictions, right? Like because
It's interesting you need deterministic
instructions for a non-deterministic
machine. Right. Because yeah, like and
um
um and they are of course
non-deterministically interpreted in in
the end. But this is also the beauty of
it because sometimes it's like
it it it tests you. Sometimes it says,
hey, this is contradictory and it isn't.
And then you have to have a conversation
with it about it. And like you realize
you know what? That mistake in the way
you wrote that you made probably is
that happens non-zero times with humans
too, right? Like so finding a more
precise version of stating the thing
that you're trying to go for or better
examples is also really valuable. All
All this to say
increasingly I find that um
um
And this is why I'm saying you have to
interview these things. Like one thing
that I'm really noticing with the latest
series of models is specifically GPT-5
thinking and
is that um
you know, I I feel like I'm pretty good
at asking questions and I I can have
like I can take these conversations with
AI into very very very interesting
places.
I have started now asking the AI what my
next question should be. And I get
better ones very often. And that's
pretty impressive. Um
because again, it is it wants to
predict.
And they have no memory very often with
all your private conversations. So they
they are some like
you know, I probably
when I'm at my absolute best I ask
better questions when I'm at my average.
And so it can uh
execute against my
like against a idealized version of
myself
like
it's it's really really fascinating and
and and really valuable. I have run
a like a keyboard logger
and a sort of what is the active window
and take a screenshot of a window like
of my of my machine every 10 minutes.
And archive this for going on 15 years
now. Like it's it's something I've
always been running and it's just for my
own purposes.
>> archive of
your daily digital activity of the last
15 years.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Holy crap. Wow.
>> And and I also I
>> What a gift. Like
>> Yeah. Nobody has that.
>> I I would never imagine this ends up
being as valuable as it is. Um
um and It's like how Tobi became
Shopify. How Shopify became Shopify.
>> It's basically that. And I now I um
it's my all of my weekend projects are
actually just like you know, running
through all of this and putting it
together because of course it's
dispersed keyboards. Lots of noise in it
and Different formats over time.
>> Yeah, and like every once in a while I
use Vim at which point there's a lot of
like a lot of what's in the keyboard
buffer is complete nonsense.
But like the nice thing is
with enough uh
um
AI tools you can turn this into pretty
clean timelines.
>> Right. Without you having to write a
script that's like, okay, every time I'm
hitting Q that disregard.
>> Yeah. And and and of course the format
changed a million times and has missing
bits and pieces. And then I have my
calendar which I can
which I'm now adding to it over the
times and a lot of emails
like what just headers of
who I converse with and so on. So
do you have that in a repository and
then you can just like whenever you say
like
whatever AI model you're using like,
hey, I need you to make something like
Tobi just look at this. And then do it
like this. Yeah. This is exactly it. So
like it's I mean I the actual format was
I just always turned it into text files
with which are like the most lasting
bits of artificial like It's it's the
best format in the world because it
lasts forever. And now I've like
been working on doing more and more work
on just like analyzing it and and
cleaning it and adding more things
because the value of this is getting
incredibly
high. Um I've also been like always
doing like my notes I kept them and so
like there's their times and so on. So I
have a
I'm I'm I have a lot of digital
artifacts about myself which
you know, again I'm
>> you to start doing that? My initial
thing was I just wanted to know what I
meant spending my time on in general.
And
there were some tools that came out
>> kind of stuff. Like
>> Exactly. That's like I forgot the names
of them. But there were some tools. But
then I I
I've always been
like the things directly about me
personally I want to keep on my machine.
That's been sort of a bias which
probably comes from when I started using
computers. Um So um and these are
interesting challenges, right? So
anyway, so so I have always I don't even
know how I specifically got there.
But um What's the most useful thing that
you found to input that into? I have a
period of time where I went from
full-time programming to um
uh fundraising to To CEO. company things
more more clearly.
And just like charting it as a time
spent in different applications is
interesting. It's also like um
I mean I from seeing what I typed into
what applications like text
a docs and stuff like this. I also like
um
I can I can track some of my beliefs
changing which is that's a really
interesting experience because it's it's
I mean the brain is fundamentally
thought to be a backwards facing um
uh narrative consistency optimization
device rather than actually a
chronological data bank. I read a great
book recently that described a key
element of the brain as the press
secretary. When anybody asks you why you
did something, the book's called The
Elephant in the Brain.
>> Yeah. Uh you have this like press
secretary that comes up with the
rational answer of why you probably did
it.
>> Yeah. But that part of your brain was
actually not present at the time of
decision. Yeah. Yeah, and I think that's
very very funda-
ex-
like the brain optimizes for narrative
consistency. Um
and so um having some of the
you know, just like things I typed um
you know, like I I
like on on on many issues that that face
face a company it's just like
fascinating. I don't I I haven't come to
real conclusion, but I have ability to
do it. I might be a bit
um slow to really do the study well.
Like it's it's like it's
you you just have to kind of
eat a bit of humble pie. Like like it's
>> What an amazing at at a minimum what an
amazing archive, right? Like you think
like companies have archives, right? And
it would be like board minutes, you
know, like you have
a moment by moment source of truth of
how this happened. Can I ask
I'll ask you the question and then I'll
give you some context or try to lead the
witness a little bit.
What are some of those things that you
think you changed your mind on over time
that you used to feel strongly on and
you feel differently now? And maybe to
give the the context uh everyone
remembers 2021
Shopify is like the media darling, you
know, crazy stock run up. Multiple goes
I think revenue multiples went from 20x
to 70x. Something crazy like that.
>> narrative, you know, human brains and
narratives. Covid happens, people at
home.
Shopify. Yeah, right. Does this then
does that and you like slowly, you know,
you're you're within
I think you have an internal rule at
Shopify you don't talk about the stock
price. Will you talk about it here on
air?
Spitting distance of all-time highs
again. Yeah. Um I just want to throw
that out as some context if you choose
to adopt it for the answer to the
question of what is what are some things
you used to believe that you no longer
believe?
Yeah, I I um so this is interesting
because now
I can do like I've been talking about my
archive. I can now go and check this.
But like here's what my brain
potentially narratively lays out for me
um is that
um
I was quite
uh
I have always seen the stock price
extremely different from like I work on
the fair market value of a company and
which is an unknown thing, but the stock
is essentially trying to the stock is a
betting market on the on the fair market
value, right? So so it will oscillate
over the thing. And so so I I I
personally didn't like I I I felt the
company was
like I mean obviously fits better in the
times because now e-commerce is more
important and I think that is like
actually increases the fair market value
of a company. We basically It was like
we trained for this moment for us,
right?
Um but you know, I I
it went really really high and it went
really really low. And and this is like
the oscillations over this. It's it's
it's whiplashy inside of companies,
but it's
um I don't know. I feel I feel like
through this I ended up um
have it like my convictions were pretty
uh
The thing that what happened is um where
I got caught up is there was like a a
bubble of uh
a belief that uh we just had to like
massively increase
the size of a company, the headcount,
and so on to like to to to deal with
this and for that it would be okay to um
um change like the the the hiring
standards. But I I I I changed my mind
on a lot of things. In fact, I think I
changed my mind on
I I I would change my mind on every
opinion I have if if someone shows up
with good um
data on it. And I think that's actually
really really important. Um so um Can
you remember something from the sort of
early founder type days before you
became like a manager and an executive
and a leader that you've that you've one
done a 180 on?
>> Like straight up, I didn't believe in
leadership. I I I I just didn't think
leadership was important. I I I felt um
um that uh
it's if if you get really good
individuals um and and um can point them
in the same direction or even without
that like all right things will happen.
And um
I I I I I I thought this partly because
um
people really disliked uh
leadership. Um so clearly the right
people would show up.
I believe those things are utterly
incorrect now. I I I I think people love
leadership. Like they like they they
love complaining about it, too, which
they should. And it like it deserves all
criticism it gets, but like there's
something absolutely wonderful being
part of a group that's being led. And
obviously I'm not obviously a leader,
like especially outside of Shopify. Like
I love just being part of a team. And
nothing more fun than having someone who
has a vision um like and and and and and
building something. Every hackathon I
go, I'm just like "Hey, I'm taking a
vacation from leading. I'm just like you
tell me what to do." That's so good. Um
so you know, that's a that's a that's a
distance traveled. That's an almost 100%
swing on on on on this particular issue.
Um
at the first version of Shopify,
everyone made the same salary, right?
Like just like we we kind of like "Hey,
let's not have difficult conversations
but just paying everyone exactly the
same. We'll figure this out." I I mean
>> How long did that go for? Well, like
like not long.
Uh but like my first 10 people or so I
was going to say "Bet that I do the
same." Yeah, yeah. We were just like
"Hey, everybody at the company makes the
same." So so it's like it's it's just
like and and and you know, I think
that's it I actually really like this.
Uh
I now know how uh egalitarian socialist
that's coded, but like I love starting
there, right? Like because
I think that would be cool if that would
be perfect way a good way of doing it.
But like actually rejecting these things
one step at a time is actually perfect
because now you don't have a derivative
idea of something. Now you actually have
some uh uh you've you've run the test
for you. It strikes me that when you
started the company, you knew nothing
about building a company or leadership
or having anything of this scale. And
you had to sort of from first principles
have go from doing it wrong to doing it
right Uh along the way. Where are some
places where you found shortcuts where
you didn't have to learn it yourself and
you could look to some other leader or
bring in someone great and that person
actually just had like a whole bundle of
shortcut. One of my my my most important
realizations at some point um like I I
found myself at some point uh only doing
things I dislike doing um and
I I'd like to think that even the things
I dislike doing, I can learn to like I I
I think everyone can get sort of to 80%
of state of the art pretty quickly on
any topic.
But like I was just a kind of miserable
at doing this. And the reason why like
everything I like doing
I I had no problem delegating to other
people because I I know it's fun.
Everything I didn't like doing Mhm. I
did myself because I didn't feel like I
should ask people to do it. And luckily
I did it I overdid this to a degree that
I had to um that it broke. It's really
really it's really good to overswing,
right? Like it's I find that if
something just sort of works, you don't
have to counteract. But if something
really breaks you, then you just like
have to examine the entire picture. And
I I just ended up like realizing
everything I don't like is someone
else's dream job.
And that's like incredibly liberating.
So so since then I've been creating lots
of
beautiful dream jobs of stuff that I
don't want to
So and that's like it it this is People
ask me a lot about "Hey, Tobi, why why
do you actually still like do
programming and why do you find it
valuable?" Like
I my I mean I have a mind I can't find
things that aren't valuable um fun
either. Like it's sort of ends up being
the same to me. Um I did I do trust that
if my mind wants me to go in a certain
direction that there's a premonition
that it will be valuable in some odd way
and uh even as analogy or so
as like perspective um or because I meet
people um that are just um That's
probably the successful founder
archetype, by the way. If if it really
comes down to one thing, I think it's
having that intuition where the overlap
of things that are interesting and
exciting to you and value creative just
like happen to be perfectly overlapping.
>> Mhm. And um for instance, the leadership
thing a lot of this came from uh
learning an instrument um
and uh I really like playing guitar. Um
I'm very bad at it, but like the funny
thing then is um
I got fascinated with music theory and
different genres and I got so much more
out of music um
and eventually we uh got to spend some
time with um uh jazz musicians who were
um very high near the top of the pecking
order in that in that world, especially
guitar related.
Um and so
only after I understood how a jazz band
works, did I realize what leadership
actually is. Mhm. Because the because
this is where like the business world is
just incorrect, I feel. Like it's it's
so chain of command um
But it but it but a jazz band is you
have a clear leader and sometimes the
leadership changes and shifts around.
But like what the leader does is not um
dictatorially say what is we're playing
and how we're spending our time and
what, you know,
what to eat. They just invite other
people uh that that have merit for what
we want to do. In fact, it may be not
even just invite any people and ask
everyone to add what they've got to a
very basic set of con con con con um
uh conventions where it's it's going to
be in a key um it's going to be a tempo.
It's emergent. It's it's like the piece
of music is being created at the moment.
And the next note is entirely dependent
on the on on on the merit, skill, and
taste of the of the people who are
showing up. And I think this is the best
metaphor for the great team is like.
Like a a lead like there got to be
constraints. It needs to be in a key. It
needs to be at a tempo.
But sometimes even the members of a
group propose changes. We go to a
different core set of cores. We go to a
different key. We go from major to
minor. We like people play um
dissonance to um create tension, which
is against the rules to then cause like
an like a
um
merging back of the music. Like like
bringing it back home feels incredibly
powerful to everyone listening. And And
that's mastery. Know knowing the rules
so that you know when you can break them
and why. Well, this sounds like this
sounds to me like the definition of a
technology company. Exactly.
>> Like uh
Henry Ford couldn't set up the assembly
line like this cuz every, you know,
worker needed to do the same thing and
every car needed to come out the same
way. And it had to be any color you want
as long as it's black. But like yeah,
software doesn't work that way. Software
doesn't work this way. People do try to
build software um this way and really
really uh
give like try to turn it into something
that actually resembles what a
car assembly line looks like after it's
created. Like that's really really
dialed in and like everyone has like
does one widget.
And you get like
2% out of the individuals that you
hired, right? Because like they are
incredible. They have a lot to give.
They have a lot of priors. They they
like give them the room to contribute.
Uh but then hold them to it. But you
would be amazed how often this happens.
I've learned so much from video games
about business. Yeah, yeah. You talked
about this a lot. I Okay,
when you said
asking for personal research here. When
did you start playing video games with
your kids? And how did you do it? Just
basically as soon like I I mean we I
think we didn't do screens until they're
2 years old, which is sort of picked um
um
uh and I don't think that's necessarily
even good advice. I think maybe it's
it's fine.
>> a 2-year-old kid playing video games.
Like uh my daughter's four and it's like
she's just on the cusp of where we
started. So just so so like the way we
played video games was um we used an
iPad. We were lying on the couch
together um and uh I I start Minecraft
and they tell me what to build. They
point at things, I build them. Right? So
that's this is us playing video games
together. Um and those are some of my
most fun memories because even
2-year-olds who just basically just know
words, like letting them
choose what we built. Like we I I I
played Minecraft a lot before before
that um in various instances. I never
built such interesting things as the
kids told me to do. Like we built tree
houses and uh like things on top of tree
houses. Like it's just I wouldn't have
imagined this because there's so much
creativity there. And so um um you know,
that's already a small team. Like I I
let them to be the jazz director of our
play session. And I think I I think
video games are like very maligned and
like again,
nothing is
like some of it deserves criticism. But
it's always a question what does it
replace, right? Like um
in the in those moments
it um
I probably needed some downtime. Right?
Like and this was some way for us to do
this. Like I have a I have a tricky job
and sometimes I need to shut off my
brain, too. I'd rather do it doing
something together with a 2-year-old um
being creative than um being upstairs
playing Minecraft or so. You know, like
what I mean not exactly what I would be
playing, but so I think I think this is
the most important question. So we We
this very early.
And then it became much more intensive
uh during COVID because uh um
I was really worried about how could
cool and everyone was. I was um
like really worried about like the
lockdowns and what they would do to
kids, especially in that Well, my boys
were like in that in in ages where
um
failing softly was just really important
for them. Like you just like have to
kind of make mistakes. Like I I I I I've
gotten where to a where I'm at by just
having failed more than others most of
the most of the time. And I I I invited
a I like failing at things. I like being
bad at things. So, um
uh which is something I want to
cultivate with them, too. I would be
very authentic and avoid making lots of
choices where you would stretch
yourself.
It's over. I I don't like such I was so
pre-biased this way anyway, but uh my
daughter's like just just at the this
age. She's about to turn four. And like
even just in the last week, she's We
have a Steam Deck. I'm going to
previewing my carve-out for the next
episode. This this ongoing saga of
David's carve-outs about Will he or
won't he get a Steam Deck?
Uh and it's gone from like me playing
this thing to her being like I want to
move the character. And then like
watching her figure out how to use a
joystick. And like the first night is
like
you know, it's like watching a monkey
try to use a joystick. And now she's
like moving the character around and
it's all like whoa, you know. It's so
cool. And it's so it's so important to
not jump in and do it for them. If you
like you obviously you you can do
everything better, but like this is such
an important thing to let them actually
like
They they ask me for help and I I give
them pointers of how to do it better and
it's like it it takes a lot. Like it's
so hard. Awesome. Yeah. You want to
short circuit it. Um Last night she was
like, "Oh, I want to talk to these
people." And I was like, "Okay, hit the
A button." And she's like, you know,
it's then watching her figure out what
the A button is. And first she's just
like spamming the A button. And I'm
like, "Okay, no no no no like
Did you see her figure it out? precise
instructions Hit the A button.
Need better context into it.
The funny So, like I just like a recent
thing is I I'm dyslexic. Two of my kids
are also dyslexic and it's it's
frustrating because like it just sort of
gets you um like it makes some things
quite harder.
Then in school it's wonderful. Um
My middle kid finally got frustrated
with just not being able to type well.
I'm like, "Okay, well, what are you
going to do about it? Um let's build a
habit somehow to do it." And then, you
know, he he was doing a typing trainer.
And it's just my god, I
he was very good at it, but
with it and
do it for 10 minutes a day, but man is
that boring.
So, then I went out and like clearly
someone has must have solved this. Um
and so
ended up finding on Steam a game called
I I
um
can't remember the name, but it's like
it's like a rogue-lite typing game.
They're like you're in the middle and
like words come at you in enemies and
you need to type them to shoot them. And
then you can choose upgrades and like
it's like
Now, all my kids are playing this type
trainer. Yeah.
And it's just like even though the other
ones don't need to learn how to do it.
Yeah, like now like the the the younger
one's also getting good at typing now
because they were all like doing 10 10
finger typing and getting to like he's I
think I think he went from 16 words a
minute when he started. He's now at like
70. Like he types like
average speed of most people.
And that was like a month. And I'm like,
"Man,
how many people think like I wish I
would have learned to type better?"
Well, I let me tell you there's a video
game you're going to fall into this
thing and you come out on the other side
being an excellent typer. And just like
again, we have not integrated video
games correctly into our society ever.
Like we are just like we're treating
them too frivolously. And as a family
who solves problems with choosing video
games as a thing that we've done
periodically, um
this has been just one of those
talk about it parenting hack. It's like
amazing. So, it works super well. Okay,
so I have a to bring it back to Shopify.
Is that okay? So, I have a company
specific or company journey specific
question for you. If if you're an
outside observer to the company, it
seems like
this
meme stockification thing that happened
in 2021
is a very consequential event to the
company. And like then you have this 80%
drawdown, you're in this like public
market valley of despair situation.
What is it like living through that? And
if you could build a time machine, what
would you go tell yourself?
Um
Yeah, so like look I I this is it is
very hard for me to
I'm trying to like key an interesting
answer to almost any question um because
that makes it sort of that's sort of a
puzzle of a good conversation, right?
Like how to how to take this in the most
interesting direction. I I find this one
is really kind of stumping me very often
because it just wasn't that interesting.
And maybe maybe the most interesting
thing about what you're describing is
that it wasn't interesting um in in in a
significant way. If I would have a time
machine, I would make I would tell I
mean, I guess the only thing I would
tell myself is that um
I should get like
quickly get the credit rating and the
sort of
facilities done to do a buyback where
like what once it goes down
But like
it just like
like I would be up to opportunistic
about it. Um Like I think that um I love
that. Spoken like a true entrepreneur.
Uh it's like
Own more of my company. Yeah, yeah, it's
awesome. Love love this company. Best
investment I ever made for sure.
I don't think it was interesting. I I I
think it was um um inside of a company
We we were
fair market value of a company, it was
something it actually didn't go down in
this time that the stock went down.
Right? Like it it did did not change.
So, um it was all other people
Yeah. Everyone in the market are
wonderful because people buy and sell
and someone buys it with
a high conviction and someone sells it
with low conviction. If you have a lot
more people with low conviction, um then
price is going down because the clearing
price shift. And
the
low conviction is
not due to the companies what the
company do very often. Low conviction
might be just because the vibe changed.
And because people's conviction that
they will be biased tomorrow changed.
And interest rates changed. Interest
rates changed.
Russia invaded Ukraine and every stock
moved in the entire market. But none of
those companies has shifted in fair
market value outside of maybe military
contractors. So, um
it just doesn't it it it isn't that
interesting and it isn't it doesn't
affect um
I I think the company a lot. But it sort
of hangs over company comes up a lot.
And the group I'm sort of
usually someone upset with is um
uh you know, sell-side analysts who gave
buy ratings at these ratings. Right?
Like it's just like they are the only
professionals whose job is to inform the
public with good advice. And like
telling people to continue buying if
companies go to 70 something times
revenue like feels um
I mean, I feels like an asset test for
your quality of your predictions. Right?
Like so I but like somehow ends up being
entirely
unproblematic for people doing that
where somehow the fact that
they did that and made
some people purchase at these valuations
which then lost a lot of money
afterwards,
you know, on the sell side was probably
you know, Goldman Sachs because they do
fundamental analysis and say and and
realize that it's probably overvalued
and sell it to people who then lose
their shirt.
That feels bad. I I want um you know, I
I I love the fact that I've made a lot
of money for a lot of people who had
conviction in the company and um
um you know, who purchased Shopify
early. I made sure I I
The most different thing I've probably
done to most companies of my cohort is
that I went public very early. Right?
Like I went Right, right. It's like over
10 years ago.
2015. Depending on how you count, it's
like a really Shopify sort of 2006
launched the product Shopify which
really is the beginning of
Like of that we were public um
I guess 9 years later from from from
there. Um But again, Yeah, short. Yeah,
today it's like you know, well, maybe
maybe in decade three we'll go public.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. We went public with
every dollar that we ever raised still
in the bank and uh
um at at a
billion and a half valuation. Right?
Like so You went public at a $1.5
billion valuation.
Yeah. Yeah. And I I
>> we did a Shopify episode and I that is
still not
That's a crazy low number by standards.
Yeah, and I love it because it means
like, "Hey, uh I I I love the facility
of public companies. I think it's so
cool
You're public. What means people
participated in your growth? People can
buy it on conviction and like say, "I
like what this company's doing. I like
its positioning." And um
I'm going to put this into you know, my
hopefully tax-free savings account for a
long time. And um
I
am very motivated by building something
that becomes of more and more value to
the people who have high conviction. And
um so so I I I I
love it. I
I'm the person trying to convince
everyone else to
uh
take their companies public because I
think it's just like the right thing to
do. Again, it's it's also valuable for a
company in in many ways and it's like
again, it's it's not difficult. It's
just like sometimes it's annoying.
That's true, but everything is What you
point about like for every job you
dislike, there's somebody else whose
dream job that is. Exactly. Exactly. And
frankly, I thought we were data-driven
before we went public and we really got
data-driven through process of taking
the company public. And I I learned a
lot. Again, 20% of the process was like
I felt pretty sorry for myself for
having to do, but 80% ended up being
utterly valuable and just like every
challenge you set yourself. What are
some other things in this 2021 period um
sort of as historians, David and I can't
help but zoom in on these moments of
like great tumult for companies and see
how they changed. So, I'm curious
uh one thing you shared with us before
is that it
even though everyone's issuing all these
buy ratings, you actually felt like
we're not a very well-run company, and
you actually had to change a bunch of
stuff, including people. Can you walk us
through some of the things in that 2021
forward period where you look back and
go, "Okay, we're a much more resilient
company today because we took XYZ
actions?"
>> Yeah. Well, I I mean, I'm I I changed
the way I work inside of a company
because I I I I just felt like I need to
like I I I have special um
um
uh special privileges uh in Shopify's
history, such as I've seen every version
of it, and therefore I have an enormous
amount of context. Like, I my own
context engineering is like easy because
it's all pre-loaded with
uh every important decision that I've
been doing Shopify for 21 years. That's
helpful. Um that helps a lot in product,
and it helps a lot in strategy, and it
helps a lot in these kind of things. So,
um anyway, but during this time, I I
mean,
Harley uh who I've been working for 15,
maybe 16 years now, is uh um
um He's the president of He's president
of Shopify. He's uh
absolutely wonderful uh human being, and
incredible storyteller, and uh you know,
just creates lots of capacity for me to
um
um be more internal focused. And um um
uh other than Harley, uh every other
executive is uh more recent now, and
it's um um it's a combination of things.
Like, I I'm like
it's not because anyone's bad people,
but like the the everyone of a previous
team, it became a really, really good
optimization function to learn a
particular way to make me look another
way. Like, like, like, like, to speak
about your area in a way that
I was
this sounds really rigorous and good. I
probably you're probably not presiding
over my current biggest problem, which
is one I want to work on. Therefore, I'm
going to look elsewhere. Mhm. And and
what what the thing that um COVID did is
like there was just no uh possibility of
uh me being devoted in attention because
I just went through everything. And
like, went through every project, every
spoke with every team directly. When
when something was really like stuck in
engineering, I talked with engineers,
and so on. Um this is how I used to run
the company um before I got into like
taking like a little bit more of an
abstract view of a company.
Um um and so, I I I I did more of it.
Listen, realized this is what I love
doing. I I it's incredibly
it's tons of work, but
I would probably do it if you wouldn't
pay me for it. No, Shopify works like
this. I Every 4 weeks, I review every
project. We have internal ledger like
this GSD thing where like every project
goes in, AI analyzes it against all um
uh our product principles. It's we are
cooking with gas now, and it's just like
building a company that's just like
fundamentally built around a certain
conviction about how like a cohesive way
of how great products are created. Um
and getting to explore if if if you're
right about it and finding figuring this
out, is is this actually a good way to
work together? It's cool, and it's
something that is unique to I think
founder-run companies that are
they are which are enabled in such a way
that like you can really build them
differently. Yeah, that was the thing
when when you you when you started the
answer of like, well, the thing about
this uh period in history was it
actually like wasn't that big a deal,
and it was it just smacked me in the
face of like only a founder-led company
could say. Yeah, cuz if you weren't a
founder-led company, you would have
gotten fired. Yeah. Like
>> Yeah, exactly. Exactly. 100%. That's the
craziest thing. Again, I really make a
massive distinction. Like, founder-run
companies, ideally we find a different
term than companies even. They they just
they're just so different from uh more
managerially run companies, than more
traditional companies. They're just
completely crap in so many ways if if
you judge them basically just from the
perspective of companies. They they
Companies are all like have their
figured out and are professional and
like
And yet, all the most valuable companies
in the world are founder-run, or look
kind of founder-run in some way.
>> Yeah, because there's playbook for
managerially run companies, and
and they are bad at adapting to the new
things because they're fundamentally
again, no one carries the full
legitimacy inside of a company.
Legitimacy is a currency in a companies.
No one carries the full legitimacy in a
company, even the CEO. The CEO just has
a lot of input on the plan. The plan
carries the legitimacy. Right? And so,
um uh the the in in a managerially run
company, the the plan for the next year
or years, if they're in a good one, um
it's the thing that everyone defers to,
and the CEO is an avatar, an advocate
for the plan.
And so, um uh
changing anything requires enormous
activation energy, where like again, if
if if the legitimate legitimacy is
invested in an individual,
then you can pivot on a dime. And um the
people who don't like this don't work on
these in these companies. So, you have
like broad agreement on on like on
that's that's the way to work. Um that
leads to bad outcomes often, but like
you know, if the individual who's
playing this role is very conscientious
and is
very open to feedback, and like change
mind their mind, like have strong
opinions weekly held if better data
shows up, and so on, it can operate at a
quite a good batting average, which
makes the the the highlights and the
accomplishments will end up making up
easily for the for the downside.
>> I'm remembering it. Maybe it was a Don
Valentine thing, or maybe a Mike Moritz
thing. That's right. We're sitting here
folks who are watching. Yeah, we're
we're recording in Sequoia's offices
because
my home is under construction, so.
So, here we are.
Uh and uh but I think Sequoia had a rule
or one of their, you know, playbooks of
evaluating founders of um
has to be right a lot. Like, that that's
the that's the judgment you need to make
as a shareholder in a founder-led
company. Like, do I believe this founder
is going to be right a lot? Mhm.
If that's the case, then like Yeah,
exactly. That's that's that's what you
need to aspire to. Which actually I
guess that was borrowed from Bezos,
right? That's a Bezos-ism.
>> I think be right a lot is an Amazon
leadership
>> That's right. I think I think that's
right. Which and it's it's it's a really
good one. Like, it's it's it's so to the
point.
Um what do you think? Let's draw a
clearer distinction between managerially
led companies and founder-led companies.
Cuz I would argue, you know,
Satya is not Microsoft's founder, but
it's starting to feel a lot like a
founder-led company.
>> Mhm. Or um
I'm trying to come up with another good
example.
>> is a thing. So, Satya Satya is my go-to
example of someone who's transcended it.
Jamie Dimon. Yeah, right.
Both of them have like and this maybe is
a bit cute with language, but here's the
way I would I would frame it just to to
to have some term to hang um
an analysis on which can incorporate
people uh in extraordinary individuals
like this.
I think both of them have given
re-founding events to their companies. I
think they are actually um
uh they have made such large changes
with such clear breaks from the past
that they are actually are the authors
of their companies' cultures now.
>> Certainly, certainly in JP Morgan's
case. We went through the whole thing
with him with like the Bank One. This is
Jamie Dimon.
>> I I think also like I I I know lots of
people uh have from Microsoft uh and
absolutely like um like Satya did, too.
Yeah. And uh these things aren't as
significant as like what Warren Buffett
did to Berkshire Hathaway. You know,
it's like completely unrecognizable.
Microsoft still resembles the Microsoft
of old. Um but it's it's it's it's
diametrically opposite on many
convictions. It's like
using um WebKit for its browser, not
Internet Explorer. It's it's like it's
very pro open source. It's more open
source uh than
I mean, Apple is, for sure. It's
shocking that they've become a great
business without owning the important
platform of the era. Yeah. Like, that
was the entire thing that their success
was predicated on in their heyday. They
don't have
that importance now, that relevance, and
yet it's still a great business.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, they
you could argue Azure is actually more
of a platform now. I I don't know.
I
I mean, this is not the episode about
Microsoft. I appreciate Microsoft
deeply, and and and
full of incredible like individuals, and
it's like hard to find fault there.
Like, it's it's just like such an
incredible company, and such a storied
business, and again, I aspire to build a
company that lasts for a long time. So,
like um Microsoft has been incredibly
successful at this, and and managed to
reinvent itself. And it's like second
most valuable company in the world, I
think, for you for you or something.
>> like there's
um it's interesting to hear you like you
know
include CEOs like that in the category.
There's there's there's a group there's
a group of
>> Yeah. Frank would be would you need a
better Frank would go in companies and
turns them into like like sufficiently
more spam um
to be given re-founding events. So, I
think I think this is actually an
employable strategy. It requires
enormous intestinal fortitude, and it
probably not work often. And the
existing shareholders handing over the
control for someone to Yeah. like
in a one-way door manner, take the
company over. Yeah. My sense is you'll
see a lot more of it.
I um like, you know, one of my
executives, Cass, is like going to
OpenDoor, and um you know, like again,
obviously that story will have to be
written about how this goes, but that's
a
that I think that is a business that
everyone agrees requires a re-founding
event to have a have a shot. And
you'll see more um
recognition of that coming of with them
coming in, and like
I think uh your compensation system even
set up to uh facilitate this kind of
thing. So, it's It's $0 salary, and it's
all based on the the if the stock does
well. Something like that.
>> Which is I mean, again, that's that's a
founder type conversation like a
conversation that's similar to start.
Yeah, I mean, I was seeing it with Jamie
Dimon of like, I'm going to put half my
net worth into this company that I've
just joined as CEO. That's right. Yeah,
like
like all in this. Like people
people underestimate how uh uh
uh
expensive hedging is.
But all this to say, so we we've come
here to talk about like
founder-led companies and and and and
managerially companies. Currently,
people don't unders- understand how
stratospherically different they are. I
think the thing that will contribute to
um
understanding this in the future is
because we actually I think will um
determine that there's sort of a middle
ground here that is sort of
you can get it from both sides that is
um
like super highly enabled um
uh individuals
and with an acceptance for
um
things going wrong as long as the
balance arcs towards great success uh um
is is is is what you want. Right now,
the only people who are
in a position to ever get there are the
founders of companies because the
shareholders didn't traditionally let
them, right? And and so I think like
Jobs got back there but wouldn't have if
he would have come in as a new hire,
right? Like at Apple. Um so
I think uh I think we'll find new tools
and then I think people will
>> appreciate this now
in a way that they didn't before. Yeah.
I mean, hell, the playbook of VCs used
to be step number one, fire founder, you
know. It's like we've seen enough
iterations of the simulation now where
you can say, "Oh, actually it it is
worth it to vest all of our trust into
this one person."
>> Yeah. But Yeah. And and there's going to
be plenty of individuals who are not
worth that trust, right? So this is
again, it will fail and it's risky and
people don't like taking risks,
especially investors, cuz again, like if
if open door not isn't working, the
people who um you know, made this deal
with Cars are going to not look very
smart, right? Like so um
um so it's it's it's high alpha
upside downside which many people avoid.
But like I think again, we will see this
being de-risked um
and so anyway, it'll be more common.
Um But we're also, you know, we're
operating in the
More and more companies are operating in
the technology world. Yeah. Uh
which is going through this ridiculous
crazy platform shift as we talked about
in the first half of this
conversation.
And this is the Yeah, you have to
operate this way as You have to. Right.
So in this is super important like
because we're not talking about a
generic um like there's no question of
where in the spectrum you want to be if
you're if if if your business is making
um is is is a widget supplier to uh you
know, General Motors or something. Like
it's like
like just operational effectiveness
like sweat every detail, Frederick
Taylor stopwatch everywhere. Like being
founder-run beta doesn't do anything. It
just like adds chaos and adds hard to
predict like quality control, I imagine.
So
um
um there might be some someone hearing
this that might be an industry that's
being reinvented right now. And like
may- maybe, but like
I think the default position should be
you want these to be actual companies.
Um this is why I also feel like
it's actually better to call the
founder-run even public companies kind
of
ventures or missions or something. It's
like
probably nonsensical to make try to make
that change and make that stick cuz
it'll never stick, but like
>> 30-year process of discovering that like
leadership is important and uh
for you and for Shopify. Yeah, yeah,
absolutely because
I feel like I
um
I felt very very dumb the moment I made
this realization. Like I I feel like
I've had everything basically through
most of my life to to to make this
realization very very early and uh
it took me way too long.
But it's that
um
leadership
and consensus are two sides of the same
spectrum.
Like they don't intersect at all. It's
like
every time consensus makes a decision,
it's the absence of leadership. And so
um
I also think I I not enough people know
this and I don't think I I I still feel
like it's a bit of a secret um because
even in our language, consensus is a
positive term. It's
maybe it's fine, but consensus is always
the absence of leadership. No one like
everyone abnegated their
um
uh leadership responsibilities to cause
a consensus um to to emerge and
prioritized um
the the presence of a consensus
um to finding a best solution. Some
people are so clever that they can
manufacture consensus around what they
would have chosen anyways and operate
this way, but like in that that's sort
of the only time these things combine
and usually it's you decide one thing or
another. So do your alarm bells go off
if you start sensing consensus around
something in Shopify?
>> even worse than that. I I actually use
it when I don't want decisions to be
made. Like if I if I Like if you want to
punt something, you're like, "Kumbaya,
we're all going to get in the room and
like I I think most companies play too
much with pricing all the time. It's
like it just like causes all these
problems with data and like it makes it
hard to predict and then suddenly you
you do you AB test discounts and then
you cheapen the product because now
people are just going to wait for the
next discount and stuff like this.
Um I mean, obviously all these things
are valuable strategies, but like I I
think people overdo it um and make like
full-time positions
changing pricing and so on.
And I I I I I basically like every 5
years I say, "Okay, let's look at
pricing. Let's from first principles
like um
uh get to a pricing. If it happens to be
the same we have today, we don't do
anything. In other cases, we we we we
make changes and then it goes back into
firmament and we're not looking at
pricing again for 5 years just because
otherwise it's uh too distracting to a
company and um
I used to just forbid it from doing
pricing. Now I have a much better way. I
create a pricing council.
And the council the council can if if it
could if it if it come to a consensus
that something is a better idea, they
can then pitch me on it. It's like super
easy to say no at this point and they
don't get to a decision anyway, so like
I don't have to deal with it anyway.
Which is perfect. You're not going to
get to a decision. And then you still
have Yeah, yeah, yeah. Once you once you
once you see through metrics, you can uh
there's moves become available to you
which are highly efficient. This is like
whenever a company tells us that there's
a V team forming to look into something
or some sort of like a committee or like
What? So it's nobody's job.
>> Yeah. No, I think that V teams can super
work. It just you have to have a leader,
right? Like that it but needs to be
extremely clear who's responsible and
who This is the old Apple thing, the
DRI, the directly responsible individual
and like it has to have someone's name
next to it. Is it Yeah.
I mean, Apple might be too, but like
Amazon is definitely big on the DRI
thing, yes. Um
Exactly. So so yeah. I'm I'm a fan of
making this quite fluid. I think it's
like
like I said, I'm I'm going to be a team
member in a hack day project. I'm I'm
I'm not the leader. Um
um I I think very often it's
it it
like if not in
commonly the person who's the leader of
an area is
different from the highest paid person,
you're not actually uh making the choice
uh of of leadership sufficiently is my
is is is one test I apply.
Cuz uh by default MO in every company is
the highest paid person is making
decisions, right? This is actually why I
take a $1 salary because I'm not so just
to like
Well, but that I mean
you benefit by far the most of the
company as well.
>> of course and of course it's like I can
and like it's fun and anyway, whatever.
Um What's the term? The HIPPO, the
highest paid person in the organization
is always the person that's right in
right in a room. Yeah. I want to signal
that I I have a conflict of opinions. I
want everyone to give me better ones
because that's fun. Um
So anyway, um so consensus
decision-making and leadership uh I
think a spectrum. If you see instance of
leadership, you also saw um a company
that has ability to avoid needing to
make every one of its decisions via
consensus.
The problem with consensus decision is
on that um spectrum from 1 to 10, it's
usually a six or seven. Mhm.
You just like you by the very process of
um
making it
need for making a consensus, you
optimize for lack of downsides. So
people are almost always better than
five. The because
they really like they they don't get the
middle. You get like some
the the best version that everyone can
agree on.
It's like back to the floor and the
ceiling thing. I'm like, "Yeah,
consensus will get you a floor, but
it'll
cram that ceiling down."
>> Floor, exactly. Exactly. That's exactly
what it does. While in the presence of
leadership, you can hit any number 1 to
10.
Um and if you're a company that wants to
hit
8 9 10
or die trying
then you kind of have to in Rule by
fiat. It's the only answer.
>> only answer. Or but but more and more
charitably like um
uh
we are
when we're looking at creating the best
products and the biggest companies and
the most successful organizations, what
you are looking to do is create an
extreme outlier. And extreme outliers
can only be created you know, pick your
term whether it's by an auteur designer
or rule by fiat or leadership, you know,
rather than consensus.
Uh
Outliers come from
like a single vision
executed by a team of people not an
agreed-upon vision executed by a team of
people.
>> That's that is 100% true and that's this
is like
very very very consistently demonstrated
in every area where it's quantifiable
how good things are, right? It's just
like
I don't think a great book has been
written
as a big collaboration between multiple
people. It's like
books are hit it are as good as they are
because they're always single author. Um
there's a
supportive agent in a in the in the
editor, clearly. Um, but that's a that
is a supporting role.
>> This is so interesting cuz I completely
agree and I'm like obsessed with auto or
driven things.
And yet, we operate a partnership where
neither of us are the boss. Yeah, but
but we're the it's it's a totally
different thing. We're a two-person
partnership. We are one person.
>> I suppose a two-person committee. We're
like a married couple at this point.
It's like a fused brain.
>> I I don't I I doubt that you wrote by
committee. I I I I think you like every
single time I see a great partnership,
it's when I it's when I see people who
are actually learned to respect and
trust whoever other person like the like
each other over in which areas they tend
to have a bit higher batting average.
That's actually true.
That's not it. We don't operate by
consensus at all.
We operate by if one of us wants to do
something, we do it.
>> We should search our iMessage thread for
for you. Yeah, yeah, that's just like
anytime one of us wants to we do so
we're both we're both, you know,
founders and so anytime one of us wants
to do something, we do it. That's just
what it is.
>> Exactly. Exactly. And I work very
closely with lots of people that that
were just over
were given rights over ruling me. Like
my my co-founder of Shopify Daniel
Weinand was a
um brilliant designer, chief design
officer eventually. And
he had um veto rights over every feature
we shipped. And like this this was I
made the decision on what was what we
were building and I wrote most of the
code even especially because we were I
mean, at some point it was just the two
of us only.
And um
he said no to features that I wrote and
was wanted to ship because we couldn't
figure out how to make the UX good for
it. And and that was important because
Shopify's killer feature in 2006 was we
had brilliant UX. Like this was, you
know, we we were the linear of our time
with Figma. Um, and uh it's always been
incredibly important. I I I giving um
the people who have a highest context
and greatest over off of ship over
aspects of a company is also that's not
consensus. That is actually straight-up
leadership again, right? Like you the
the leader on that aspect becomes that
person. And so um it it it's it's
important that uh you need to be able to
realize
>> listen to this and be like, "Oh, I need
to be like Tobi and I need to be the
leader on every single thing." And
become like that's not the I'm not.
I I I I I absolutely am not. I I I uh
what I don't believe in is pushing
decision-making outwards, sort of this
grassroots or down in organization idea.
I also don't believe in top-down idea. I
believe in pulling decision-making
inwards. I I I create um the highest
idea liquidity environments in which we
can make very good decisions quickly,
but that's very clear who's making
making decisions and who's consulting on
it. And this is again these like review
cycles I talk about are that. Like we
are going through a thousand projects.
It is a crazy thing to do. It's like
takes starts at like 8:00 a.m. and
usually runs to 10:00 at night three
days out of every month. And um
uh and and and the follow-ups from this
are probably for a weekend I do
follow-up reviews and stuff. It's just
like I like I have happened to like
working, which is good. And and and
>> locked It's like it's good. It's like
this is what I want to do. And like I
think it's uh
it's it's I I
I'm doing a thing that I didn't set out
to do. I'm trying to build at massive
scale like a societally important piece
of software. Like it's like there's a
lot of if you subtract Shopify out, like
like if it disappears overnight, there's
a lot of uh countries which would have
no GDP growth. Second order GDP because
of Shopify is massive from all of our
customers.
>> Yeah, it's like it's just like plain uh
GMV uh like gross pro- profit dollars,
like just sales across the platform is
like I think a third or more of the
Canadian entire GDP. I mean, I if you if
you calculate it, it's like 400 billion
kind of things. Like it's it's just
absolutely crazy. I Again, I didn't
hardly makes it so I I I don't I think
that would make you either the second or
third largest retailer in the world if
all of that GMV was accredited to one
retailer instead of Yeah, but but
obviously it isn't. So this is a highly
virtualized uh uh way to think about it.
But like in terms of the checkout that
Shopify ships, it is the
in the top three busiest checkouts on
planet Earth. Um, um and and at a growth
rate that it might end up being the
biggest. And so um it's uh
that's a that's a that's a tremendous
responsibility which I
man, I don't operate too much like on
regret minimization. I actually like
like slightly different framework where
um
Bezos famously um talked about uh
um future regret minimization. What is
the nuance? Um I I I'll I'll get into
this because it's fun. Um, and um but
it's uh
my my my biggest regret would just be
like, "Hey, I didn't
take it seriously and like
responsibility seriously enough." Right?
Like I I I um I think it sucks when
people use bad software. I think it
sucks when uh anyone's underperforming
their own potential due to tools. I I
like I I can do so much here, so I
of course I'm dedicating myself to
um to this kind of thing. Very early we
talked about founder run companies uh
versus managerial companies and how in
in management uh
like a CEO is is being fired when
results are bad, which I think is
fundamental that's multiple levels of
wrong. Um, but like
the way to judge a CEO is like out of
what opportunity did you carve what
company?
Um and maybe even for what reasons. Um
and uh you know, like you you look at
something like um
uh you know, eBay which
by rights should have all of commerce on
the internet, right? Like they were they
were first and had everything figured
out.
O- owned PayPal. Um, like Incredible
business model, asset light. Shopify
does not own Stripe. It's like it's like
they had the entire thing. They In the
PayPal acquisition, like think of the
staff. It's like Peter Thiel coming in,
Elon Musk, you know, Max Levchin, and
like a million others besides. Um
David Sacks started YouTube. Yeah,
exactly. So it's like like think about
the talent density that they've got. So
from that moment um
what what's eBay now? So Not that. Yeah.
>> Right. And so um I mean, you can even
play this with the craziest thing. Um,
you can even play that game with
Microsoft, right? Like it's like
obviously the
courts have now said that Apple can
charge 30% um
on all the economic activity on those
platform with, you know, some emergent
provisos um and maybe carve-outs. Um
that means Microsoft could have done
this with a PC.
Right? Um
uh they got in antitrust over shipping
of that product, which is so insane if
you think about it, right? Like it's
like they what they should have done is
have an app store and charge 30% of
literally all the money on planet Earth
right now, right? Like that So what kind
of trillion-dollar company would that
be? So obviously I'm not advocating for
this particular reality. I'm very glad
this didn't happen. Uh
uh and I think maybe entire all of
planet Earth is
off better because this didn't happen.
>> Well, we have a Ben you have you have
your theory that uh every great company
has latent uh economic value within it
that it chooses not to exercise. Stored
potential energy. Stored potential
energy.
>> 100%. So um so out of what opportunity
did you carve what is actually the right
question. Of course, much harder to
judge, but at least for purposes of
every CEO evaluating themselves on the
job, that is the question they should
ask themselves. So I certainly the
question I ask myself. Okay, give it
give us your version of the regret
minimization framework.
>> Okay, well, I mean, so I I I
I do agree with it. Like like in in in
general, I think it's just lossy and I
think it's much to um
enhanced. So
the way I I before I knew that was the
way uh um Jeff talks about it. I I
always
somewhat maybe more sort of
um philosophical. I I I just feel at the
end of life you meet the people the
person you could have become. Um, and uh
I So so you I think the work in life is
try to minimize the difference between
um that person and and who you actually
ended up being. Um, so that's certainly
what I do.
I I think one ingredient in this um Say
that one more time. At at Is it at the
end of life?
>> Yeah, at the end of life you get the
essentially like the game over screen is
like you you get this like you get to
meet the person you could have become if
you would have um The best version you
could have been.
>> Best version you could have possibly
been been. And I think your your goal on
planet Earth is to minimize the
difference between that and that
potential. So I like
again
do
this is not uh I I I don't think this is
a truth of any kind, but it's a very
very valuable story to believe. And sort
of the thing that I I I get a lot of
value out of.
I think one of the most important
ingredients is not just think about
future self regret. Don't think about
what you at a deathbed you would have
wanted to. You need to consult your
inner 16-year-old, too. This is it's so
important. We live in such amazing times
and in in we have accomplished so much.
Many people like everything we currently
have is something that we dreamed of at
some point. Um, and uh um it's it's it's
it's important.
That's certainly what a perfect place to
end in a Yeah, couldn't agree more. It
feels like such a
cheap way to make better decisions, but
I wish more people would do it. Yeah.
Well, Tobi, thanks for doing this with
us. This was good fun. Loved that. It
was great conversation. Thank you very
much. Thanks for your platform. I again
keep saying this, but I love your
podcast. So Great book. Thanks.
>> Thanks for letting us be a fly on the
wall on
your own discovery journeys on these
storied companies and uh people.
Thank you.
>> Thanks, Tobi.
>> Awesome. All right, listeners, we'll see
you next time. We'll see you next time.
Mhm.